I kissed your mother good-bye before going into the Adana airport terminal. She would drive back to Incirlik Air Base. You were three, your mother was still carrying you. You all would fly to Mobile the following day, staying with grandma until the birth. 

A year remain on my enlistment, a year of grad-school as well. Aspirations were high. International economic development, meaningful work with USAID, take the Foreign Service Officer exam to become a diplomat. 

Turkish Airlines to Ankara then Doha. Qatar Airline to Kathmandu. 

After landing in Kathmandu...

Research into microfinance, Muhammad Yunis, financial econometrics, economic development books. 

Kathmandu, the driving, noise, sounds, smells, colors.

Compare to Turkey through stories. 

Bus ride to Tutong.

Jazz collection. No phone.

Bottom of the canyon in a Thunderstorm. 

Last in the Air Force to further intertwine into the story. 

Finishing school.

Buying a car.

Moving to Idaho.

Accepting PhD in Economics moving to Pullman buying a house. Dropping out. Too soon after separation, took too much on. 

Work at Emsi. Group. 

Completing Prerequisites for PhD in mathematics. Kevin. 

Moving to Louisiana. 

2022. 
The thirteen year plan. 
Natasja and me. 

Girls 26, 23. 

UltraStrong. Complete Strongman competition without zeroing any events in the open category on a Saturday. Complete 50 miler trail run under the allotted time, immediately the next day, Sunday. What is the body ultimately capable of? 

Read and write an essay on all books in our home library. 
A basic education. Do these books offer a background considered to be a basic education? Privacy, the information light age. The spread and reaction of information. We have transitioned into this phase from the 1990s, some would argue before that. However, the 2010s fully exemplified the fundamental differences of having 24/7 connection to everyone, their entire lives at every moment, important events requiring additional journalism, research being published at a constant rate with an unknown reproducible rate. Even further detailed information about ourselves, connections we rarely make, are stored throughout the world. How do we proceed?  

Earn VFR license.

Fluent in French, German, Japanese, and Russian. 

Have six notebooks full of writing.

Travel 25 states. Six countries. 






