Thirteen Year Plan
It is 2023, I am 37. I portray a calm demeanor. A lack of intensity. The outsiders perspective. The internal, a constant urge to test myself, but to remain at peace. Years ago, shortly after we separated from the military, I played in a rec league basketball game. 

Two minutes and thirteen seconds remained, we were down by ten. Enough time. We fouled, there were at the line. The clocked continued to run.

I waited a few seconds. Nothing. 

I yelled over at the table to stop the clock. The kid, around sixteen on staring at his phone laughing with the girls next to him, ignored me. He was getting paid seven dollars on hour to keep score. Zero skills required. In exchange for $7, can you keep score of this game according to the rules? A minor investment into ones career as a local scorekeeper for the game. In general, a role of zero importance to everyone outside the fifteen people participating in the game. 

I was one of those fifteen. I took it immensely personal.

After that game, I only played on the softball team, a sport I did not practice and only did for to hangout, and get beers with afterwards, a non-competitive sport. I did not compete for nine years. For six years I trained as a power-lifter. For two years I trained as an amateur boxer. Though I probably needed more sparring time to be consider true training. Back to strength sports, this time Strongman. The past year. 

Competed again. First event. First five steps. Trip on a pebble. Drop the element. Two-hundred and seventy-five pounds of steel beam. Right on the thick part of my calf. I curse to myself.

Upset. Training for six months. Driving four hours. Getting a hotel. Restless the previous night. Stayed up watching a basketball game. I always do that when I am in a hotel. Watch basketball. Wrong season. Baseball. Not much of an overlap of when I am in a hotel, and its not basketball or baseball season.

I completed remaining events edging out one guy for a second place finish. A sport I can do well in, compete even. But what more could I do? What are the actual limits of the human body? UltraStrong.

Throughout my life, I have always sought an adventure. A grand vision that life would prove to be a tale plucked from the depths of Middle Earth. Those exist, but are mere moments, specks of time, that are retold around dinner tables, booths with friends over beers. Most of time our spent in a routine. Seeing the same people at the same time at the same places. Humans are a habitual species.

Our habits have evolved into chaos. Consistently overbooked schedules with no fore thought to a year or two beyond the moment. My family’s library, small, around three-hundred books, contains in the moment purchases. Books, dense tombs of knowledge, requiring daily diligent work over a considerable amount of time to get through. 

We believe we are smart. Everyone believes they are above average. From an income perspective people would assume I held a some level of intelligence. My seventh grade daughter’s math homework has yet to stump me but later that day Quanta Magazine sent updated me about a sophomore, college but high school who knows, solving an ancient math problem using an obscure form of mathematics. 

It was said, that a man’s library is not what he knows but what he does not know. Though I wonder, that a man’s library accompanied by his thoughts, is what he knows.* If so, how long would it take? Thirteen years. 

What else? Became UltraStrong? Earned our Bush Pilot’s license. Are fluent in French, German, and Japanese or Russian. Had six notebooks full of writing. Traveled to twenty-five states, and six countries. Embraced our careers. 

Where will we be in thirteen years? I do not anticipate a special revelation, guarantee of happiness, or success. Just a life.

A life of memories conform to a period of thirteen years. A series of pursuits. A test in education. Everyone else is always the moron in the story but what do we actually know. How much can one person be informed on? Do any topics make me want to dive deeper into a specific topic? Do I even know enough? No. But lets see. 

What is the body capable of doing? Can you compete in an open Strongman competition one day? With stones, of course. Then the following day complete a 50 mile trail run. Is that possible? UltraStrong. I wonder. 

That adventurous spirit. To fly a plane from a lake in Alaska through a mountain pass and land on a grass landing strip in the between the trees on the mouth of the bay. Or based on windsock in a field among fields. Nothing important. Enjoying the trip. 

The ability to communicate to ideas beyond your current linguistic capabilities. What does the language tell us? What does English tell us, about us? A previous generations language. French, and German. A romantic and Germanic. An entirely different language. Japanese or Russian?. 

Always document your thoughts. Keep most of them private, or among a small circle, sharing only those you have diligently thought out. Thoughts, sketches with the imagination that are spared from outside influence. Never stop. 

Embrace the challenge of a career. Deepen technological knowledge and understand how to drive business value. The two will satisfy that drive. Navigate and plan appropriately. A focused drive. 

Thirteen years. I give myself thirteen years. 

A period that will impact the remainder of our life. We are given seven to eight of these periods in a life. 

Our fourth period. 


* An essay requires, a minimum 1,000 words on a relevant topic pertaining to book, or of a quarter of the problems completed if applicable, 

** To be considered UltraStrong. An individual must compete in a Strongman competition without zeroing any events in the open category on a Saturday. Immediately the next day, that Sunday, the individual must run an ultra-marathon, specifically, a 50 miler, preferably a single track trail run, under the allotted time.

*** Work, specifically my own domain, which is unique to everyone. Currently, mine is a data scientist for a start-up cyber-risk quantification company. Data science with experience and in a management role, lucrative. Cyber-security with experience, gaining penetration testing, publications, patents, lucrative. Combining the two one has to believe immensely lucrative. Given  